Now, again, we had wonderful retreats, and beautiful, and in many ways, and I'm so grateful and
thankful to you all and as well as the blessings of all great beings, great masters, great teachers
.
Dear blessings and dear continuing inspirations and aspirations, we had quite good practice and
explored the teachings of the according of our capabilities.
I think we did quite good, I'm happy, and thank you very much for all that our performance and
being part of this beautiful things.
Now, again, we're going to do, again, two practices we should remember our home, sweet home, the
best, which is our very foundation of the practices and the motivation, and mind, that is mind.
We're going to think of the important mind, the strengthening, the glorifying, the beautiful
motivations of vastness motivation, as well as beautiful motivations of the very inner teachings.
With that beautiful foundation and home sweet home, we're going to look back to the treasures,
treasures that what we revelled and what we discussed.
As great master Kinti Badgiromaji often says, "Looking back to what we went through is always
important."
It is in the Buddha's teaching, always said, "Lion's Gate, Lion's Gate, you're looking back where
you come from, where you are now, and what will be our vision, goal."
In that context, again, I'm going to look, and I'm going to ask you to look back where we came, for
example, two weeks ago, up to now.
And what we came, of course, is the whole teaching of the Buddha.
We started with the Four Renowned Session Tips, and that is the Renowned Session of the ego-cling
ing, Renowned Session of the attachment, and the Renowned Session of the negative, hapichi pattern.
That's something which is not really helping us at all. Yet, it is always as part of our package.
We carry that heavy luggage all the time.
Even we don't have the strength, even we don't have the capabilities to handle, yet we are dragging
that, and we should renounce that.
That is the what the Renowned Session means. And all that good aspect of the Buddha highlight of
that Renowned Session, remember that.
That is so important to starting off our growth and our journey adventure, and therefore, the Four
Renowned Session is so important.
That's what we discussed. Within the context of the Buddha's teaching, the First Buddha's teaching,
full noble truth,
suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, and a part truth, and a cessation truth, we discussed.
We went through it.
We went through footsteps of the mainstreams of the Buddhism, the great awakening practitioners,
who follow that path and actualize their realizations, their understanding, the fulfillment is so
rewarding.
That's what they got. We like to make our journey as rewarding, very rewarding, not as failures and
disappointments.
Therefore, to rest our thinking of this Four Renowned Session, towards within the context of the
full noble truth, this is what it is, and that is so important.
We followed the path, then we started talking about the highlight of the raffus. We discussed about
the raffus.
And within that context, we discussed at noble paths. The greatest teacher, Buddha, highlighted at
noble path.
When we followed at noble paths, we are in balance, perfectly in balance, not extreme, as altering
this habitual, pathetic habitual pattern, carries way in the drag ass, in the ditch.
We follow with at noble path. That is part of light, part of peace, part of joy, and part of very
open and uplifting encouragement.
That is what the path is. Within that, we follow as taking raffus.
Without taking raffus, then we strengthen, not just taking only raffus, but we expand our vision
and goal to all the sentient beings.
Highlight of such a beautiful attitude of the heart, opening our heart, called the Ben-Scented
beings.
Without any discrimination, without any territories, without divide by the time and spaces, out
reaching, heart feeling, the great unconditional love and compassion, and the wisdom combined
together, both each other.
That is what we discussed. With that beautiful context, with these beautiful conditions, beautiful
conditions, then we developed.
The true visions of the Vedayana teachings, as great masters, taught, as great masters, Buddha Sh
akyamuni, Guru Pymma Sambha, and Gung Chingpah, and Indian Mylung Pah, and as well as, the Satsang N
angpah, and the Tung Chio Dorje, taught.
And as well as, great masters, His Holiness, Guru Pymma Ching, and a great master, Kachibati Shair
an Vais.
In their voice, in their presence, in their light, we went through. We didn't do any distorts and
carried away, destructing in different ways.
We follow the main streams of the exactly straightforward path to discover our heritage.
With that, we went again to develop the beautiful concentriches. Concentration is the foundation of
everything.
But at the time, we don't find all the great result, as mentioned in the teaching, as great masters
achieved, great practitioners are mentioned, and they achieved.
Because we are, like us, not enough concentriches, or lack of concentriches.
I spoke extensively about how we should be prepared and make clear of our good concentriches.
We all need concentriches. You need concentriches. I need concentriches. We all need concentriches.
We are within as one group. We travel to it, as Sangha members. Therefore, we need concentriches.
We spoke about that quite extensively, eternally, exactly as the great masters highlighted and
pointed out.
We follow that footsteps. With that understanding, then we went to the Vedayana teachings.
Vedayana teachings, as I said, are within the context of the two stage practices.
The creation stage practice of all this is, divine mandala, mandala of the Buddha, mandala of the
primordial Buddha.
That Buddha we use as a step in the stones of the Gurutavo, the Pimaheru.
But actually, that mandala is our mandala, your mandala. That's what we started. How to build up
the total cosmos of the divine mandala.
That is what we discussed. How we started. That is what the Buddha taught. That was the Muropema
Samma taught.
This is not mandala of something individual, of strange things from outside. We are pretending that
.
We are the middle center and center of that column, center of that focus.
From there, we ignite it. We develop the magical illusion, which is the mandala, the whole
fundamental system we develop.
Actually, our prison time is duality mandalas. Propose. But to remove, to transcend that duality
mandala,
we went through the organ inherited, the mandala, how to even work that power, that energy, that
god.
Poem, song, and space, everything. We went through that. One very quite thorough and detailed
within the context of the doctrine status.
It is all display of the primordial customs, primordial awareness, the organ status.
Within that beauty, that richness, that openness, that is what we capture, what we behold in that.
And with that, then we went, went, and how to maintain, such as to continually maintain the
complete state practices.
Complete state of the, like as a complete state of the first stage, we did dissolve of the dual
ities.
And once duality dissolve, how to continually maintain it?
How to continually maintain the prison state of the, of the Dzokhi, Dzokhi status or prison status?
That is what we discussed. Again, to do this, to maintain the prison status, as great masters, as D
zokhi and Tantaras taught.
Taught, we went through step by steps with beautiful concentrations, beautiful concentrations,
beautiful kind of turning point of the habit patterns,
and beautiful knocking out, of each of the habit points, habit point of the six ranges, with syll
ables, with concentric, with mantras.
Mantras, we went one after another. Step by steps, again, went exactly.
It is, again, it is the concentric practices, it is knocking up the habit pattern or transcendent
habit patterns,
instantly waking up to our old and natural status, shaking up the, shaking up the deep of the sams
aras,
and it is the practice of the both each others.
It's all that beautiful package of the practice combined together as known as continuation practice
.
That's what we discussed. We discussed.
With this understanding, then we want one after another, again,
specifically related with our current situation of the body, current situation of the speech or
voice,
and current situation of our mind. Again, at the teaching method, one after another,
we went how to transcendent our physical habit pattern or notion of the clinging attachment to the
habit pattern
of the body and the speech and mind, and then release all that in the absolute state of the prim
ordial nature states,
and then relax in that state, without changing, without utter, utter, uttering, anything.
Relaxing that freshness, origin, openness, the natural status, which is zoki, zoki teaching.
That is that, and relaxing that. That is what we discussed.
So therefore, what we've been discussed, we discussed the whole path of the Buddha's teachings,
from the day one, the Buddha ghee, at the Sarana, dear Bhak, and that until age 81.
181. What did the Buddha talk?
On the open level, in the sacred level, or the mystery level, or the very higher level,
that all as well by the great masters, their gracious, they continually maintain,
and we will open their traangles. It is your traangles. It is not just the Buddha's traangles.
It is our traangles. We touched their traangles in this fall, two weeks.
We went through that, and that was our practice, that was our teaching, and that's what we went
through.
So looking back, we pretty much recovered quite good whole practices.
Now is your time, and our time, how are we going to apply that practices?
That is what is in your mind, in my hand, in our hand.
This is not just saying something, reading things, and leave that. This will be our practices.
How are we going to continue? That is, we are going to look for the future.
This is the future of our practice, that started from now, right now, to the future.
How are we going to maintain and upkeep these practices?
That is our goal, and our vision, and our plan.
And if you do this, again, as the great masters mentioned, and I said that before too, too.
And there is five points, whether you do meditation, whether you do practices.
I said that already, many of you already know, the first is laziness.
Laziness.
That whether you are going to practice the chanting, whether you are going to meditate silence.
Generally, in the Vedayana teaching, chanting is meditation.
Chanting is meditation. And we stay our mind with that chant, the meaning of that chant, or with
that song.
That itself is meditation.
You are abiding with the way you are focused.
And then, not just only abiding in one kind of scholarly stuff, you open the whole medhara in the
Vedaya.
The whole medhara, which is three Vedya states.
Vedya, form, and Vedya, speech, and Vedya, song.
That you are capturing in the subcontinues at the same time.
You are activating your head within that state at the same time.
So chanting is not just a distraction, chanting is the meditation.
Chanting is the practice. And we keep up that, as teachers.
And therefore, whether we silence meditation, or whether we are with chanting meditation.
The ball, the first one, number one obstacle, is laziness.
Laziness.
I'm not going to talk all the difference. I make it, you know what you make it.
And you must have heard also, I mean, in the book, and you heard from others.
So the laziness is the number one obstacle.
The second obstacle of the practices, meditation practicing, is forgetting and struggling.
Not remembering, forgetting and struggling. Even you are eager to practice.
Eager to carry, to activate it might change.
Forgetting and struggling is the second obstacle.
And third obstacle is, now you start the practices, you start meditating.
But third obstacle will come during the meditation, during the practices.
That is skater mode, skater. Skater, wandering thoughts.
Daydreaming. A lot of daydreams coming, coming, and all those unnecessary things.
Moved from the cushion, moved from the body, moved from the heart,
and you are carrying some completely different directions.
And you are not on that cushion. You are not on these big practices.
That is called skater mode.
And oh, that wandering.
That is obstacles of the during, third obstacle, during the practices.
And there is another obstacle during the practices.
That is dullness, fogging, sleeping.
Sleepy and clarity, vitality, and resistive qualities,
are again robbed with that dullness, that clarity, that fogginess.
That's sleeping, sleeping in an obstacle.
And those are the obstacles of the during practices.
Then there is another obstacle, which is known as, then, you are making too much effort.
Too much effort, forceful. Make too much forceful, too much intentionally forceful
during the practices, or the two practices.
Again, there is another secondary obstacle.
And third is not applying at all any effort.
Even you see, even you know, completely can't let that happen.
Those are the obstacles of our growth of the practicing of the future, from now onward.
And that is what we should always put.
That's what all the great masters, the practitioners, experienced, Buddha said.
So remember those obstacles. And there is more details of those.
I'm sure, you know, we mentioned in the books, all the different times, and you can highlight those
.
But those are, and then, of course, other books, you can read.
Those are, I mean, principal, hindrance, and obstacles in our future practices,
future practices, and the growth and the development.
So therefore, remember those things, and then the practices.
When you preach the practices, your practice session is finished.
And how are we going to take care of them during the daytime?
This is known as the post-meditation times.
Post-meditation time, for us, is longer than the practice times.
Any of those great practitioners, practicing is longer than the post-meditation.
Those who are the different difficulties. For us, the practice is so short.
Short and not practice time is very long.
Therefore, we have to stretch that energy of what you practice in a short time,
stretch until the next time you practice.
In a way, that this practice will be our multiple vitamins.
You know, that is multiple of our tonics, that we are going to maintain that tonic,
tonic all the way to the next step that you start the practices.
To upkeep that, how we do? That is known as mindfulness.
Of course, again, this mindfulness, all that, always necessary, always important.
But mindfulness, alertness, and caution, coincidence.
These three are always important, and particularly during we are out of the practices.
This. And what it will do? It will do.
It will come back to our own natural status.
It will remind us. They will continually see assistance for us,
which supports that we cannot lose control.
We have not lost our string of wheels, string of wheels.
It will bring back us to the trick, trap, trap, and the wrong.
Therefore, mindfulness, alertness, consciousness is always important.
That means also, that means you are going to remember of the practice and teachings.
Remember the teachings. Remember the practices.
Remember of the great master's legacy, their visions, their advice.
All that will bring, as it needed, as is required,
record and bring up available that immediately, so that we won't lost our string of wheels.
String of wheels.
And then, perceiving all this together, as with that, and then you have that.
Seeing all this as magical, dream, miracle.
And then performing activity that which is benefitting to others, to yourself.
With joy, with respect, with appreciation, with calm, with peace, and move forward.
And always encourage ourself, ourself, and looking back to our activities
and see, "Oh, I did good. How I am going to do better in life."
Every time, set up the compromising of the joy, appreciation,
some of the all good activities that we perform.
And we see some, that out of that good activities,
with respect, courage, and commitment, that next time, I won't repeat.
May the blessings of the Buddha in the European Assembly, great masters,
so that I will continue to stay on the right, rightness status,
so that I won't make too many mistakes.
Mistakes and hindrance, we can make. We have the ignorance.
It's not something unusual that is happening.
But we can acknowledge it and try to change.
Again, that is our responsibility.
That is the identity of the practitioners.
Not just a kind of like, ignore, ignore, and then again.
Always that's not what is known as purification, forgiveness, excuse.
And use those.
And that will to be practiced in such a way as subtle practices, so forth.
It doesn't purify, forgive, let it go.
We're not going to keep that shadow and that stain, all that.
But use as experience, use as knowledge.
Then continue to move forward.
That is what is known as the guru of beautiful activities.
Activities of the body, activities of the speech, activities of the mind.
And those are now the ten virtuous activities,
but great master, Vasudvendu told, and great also Bodhisattva.
Our Lakshvara told, I mentioned before, but it's all good activities.
Do good things that related with you, that reflecting your love and joy in the devotions.
And I said, other day I mentioned also, great master Karmachamma said,
do sakramath, do pashtak, do service to the others that benefit,
and help to those who are sick, sick persons.
If you can help, help to them, accord your capabilities, accord readiness, and help them.
And those all known as virtuous activities of upward practices,
all the false meditation practices.
So those are what is our future plans.
Those are our future activities.
And if we maintain that, then we're keeping good practices.
And again, I'm going to highlight that.
With this understanding, every time you practice,
as great master Karmachamma said, and can keep Karmachamma,
you often take that.
That is not just every very master said in his mind.
First, it's the most important is poor renunciation,
and bodhicata, rafu, and bodhicata.
Those are the foundations.
Second is that with that foundation, you're going to practice.
Practice and meditate, that practice.
At the end, then do the dedication, aspiration and dedication plays.
Those are the three noble ones.
The first noble, middle noble, and ending noble.
If we keep all with that practice, what I said already,
all that comes perfectly as beautiful practice in the following part of this great master's.
A great teacher.
And that is my brief talk and reminding of the teaching.
And now we're going to do that practice as we do always.
And thank you everyone again. Thank you.